my mother was very young she was
mentally ill and it was a period of time
when was 30 years ago when people didn't
know the difference between she paranoid
schizophrenia manic depression they
didn't know how to treat it so she was
kind of self-medicating with alcohol
this bond that's supposed to happen
because it keeps going back to
relationships and bonding she wasn't
really able to show up as a mother and
as I understand it your neuro chemistry
doesn't develop a certain way as an
infant and you need kind of jolts so
you're kind of being prepared to be a
love addict in that way and she was also
for me the original love junkie if
you've looked at the book there's that
line my mother cried over all the men in
her life and so clearly there was a
depressive thing which has an effect on
kids again laying the groundwork she
wasn't really available so I'd be
reading fairy tales which no doubt fed
into romantic ideas of love sacrifice
yearning because you're yearning to have
the original attachment then layer on
top of that the father again they're
both young it's not about blaming them
and in fact that's been a big part of
breaking out of this cycle is it's not
anyone's you know responsibility except
your own you're an adult at this point
let's go it's enough you're not going to
get the parental love that would have
been ideal we already had a mentally ill
mother which has its own drama in the
house and there was always chaos and
drama and her choices kept getting worse
and men her next choice for a husband
was someone who was very violent who had
named himself to get out of going to
Vietnam he was alcoholic very abusive
controlling so he ran out and I'm glad
my mother enough presence of mind to
take me and we were off to New York and
left that and she was seven months
pregnant at the time is very yeah so
interestingly that that aspect of the de
kenzi and just these overblown
incidents which I didn't really think of
that way when I was growing up because
you can't that's the confusing thing
till you get so into your survivor mode
and gallows humor of it um but the truth
is now when I look back and this memoir
was a hugely informative for this I
realized that that was one of the spots
like there what did Wordsworth call it
spots in time that kind of flashpoints
where I experienced a fusion of fear and
pleasure and that I think that violent
experience and the abuse there really
had something to do with informing some
of my choices with ex-cons and various
other unsavory but exciting seeming
smart charming but dangerous men later
on
you